#summary The following is a list of laptops known to be supported or unsupported by acer_acpi.
#labels Featured

= Supported Hardware =
==Bluetooth==

Bluetooth is an _optional_ device. Most of the supported laptop series can _support_ a bluetooth module, but many don't have one. So, just because you have a bluetooth button, doesn't mean you actually have a bluetooth module in your laptop.

Unfortunately, we can't detect this on acer_acpi (on WMID, if you try to write to this, you'll get an error message in dmesg. On AMW0, this will just fail silently).

== WMID Users ==

===Mail LED===

This is only supported on some WMID laptops by driving it through the Embedded Controller. To test this on another WMID laptop, load acer_acpi with "force_series=2490".

===3G===

Unless you have specifically bought a 3G model, you don't have this built in.

Acer lists such laptops twice - in the case of the Aspire 5680, there is the 'Aspire 5680-3G' and the 'Aspire 5680'. 

Unless you have bought the -3G version of a laptop series, you don't have 3G (unfortunately, we can't tell them apart in acer_acpi).

== Introduction ==

To summarise: the driver only supports those laptops that have an ACPI-WMI device (defined in your laptops DSDT). So, any laptop that doesn't provide this device is not supported.

acer_acpi is not limited to just Acer laptops - we know at least one Fujitsu Siemens and one Medion laptop use the same ACPI-WMI interface as Acer.

Unfortunately, it is not possible to tell by the hardware alone which laptop series require acer_acpi. The chances are, if you need to install LaunchManager or the Mobility Center add-on in Windows just to turn on your wireless, bluetooth, etc, then you probably need this driver.

If you discover your hardware is supported by acer_acpi and it is not listed here, please send a dump of /sys/firmware/acpi/tables/DSDT (/proc/acpi/dsdt on older kernels) to me (carlos(@)strangeworlds.co.uk), also listing the make and model of your laptop.

If your hardware is not listed on either supported or unsupported, and acer_acpi does not load, please send me the dump of /sys/firmware/acpi/tables/DSDT (/proc/acpi/dsdt on older kernels) and the make and model anyway, as that way we can decide if acer_acpi just needs tweaking to work on your hardware, or so we can definitely rule out your hardware as compatible.

If your hardware is listed as _not_ having a dump available, please send one - we are looking into any additional functionality that acer_acpi can expose (which, at the moment, seems to be none).

All of our available DSDT dumps (translated to readable ASL) can be found in the [http://aceracpi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/dsdt/ Subversion repository]

Legend:

  * u = Unconfirmed (Taken from the internet, please confirm if you have this model)
  * c = Confirmed (We have been told that this works, or confirmed that it doesn't)
  * d = DSDT available
  * dw = DSDT wanted (Please submit yours to us)
  * n = No WMI ACPI interface, will not support
  * r = New WMI ACPI interface, requires reverse engineering
  * k = Requires a keyboard quirk to enable multimedia keys
  * 1 = AMW0 interface
  * 2 = WMID interface
  * 3 = AMW0 v2 interface (AMW0 and WMID)

== Supported ==

This list is _very_ incomplete. These are only the models that have been reported back to us 
as working - if your laptop works and is not on here, please report back.

===Acer===
====Aspire====
  * 1360 series [c,d,1]
  * 2920 series [c,d,3]
  * 3010 series [c,dw,1]
  * 3020 series [c,dw,1]
  * 3040 series [u,dw,3]
  * 3050 series [c,d,2]
  * 3100 series [c,d,2]
  * 3610 series [c,d,1]
  * 3620 series [c,d,3]
  * 3680 series [c,d,2]
  * 4520 series [c,d,2]
  * 4315 series [c,d,3]
  * 4720 series [c,d,2]
  * 5010 series [c,d,1]
  * 5020 series [c,d,1]
  * 5040 series [c,d,3]
  * 5050 series [c,d,2]
  * 5100 series [c,d,2]
  * 5315 series [c,d,2]
  * 5520 series [c,d,2]
  * 5560 series [c,d,3]
  * 5570 series [c,d,2]
  * 5580 series [c,d,2]
  * 5600 series [c,d,2]
  * 5610 series [c,d,2]
  * 5630 series [c,d,2,k]
  * 5650 series [c,d,2,k]
  * 5670 series [c,d,2]
  * 5710 series [c,d,2]
  * 5720 series [c,d,2]
  * 5680 series [c,d,2,k]
  * 5920 series [c,d,2]
  * 7110 series [c,d,3]
  * 7520 series [c,d,2]
  * 7720 series [c,d,2]
  * 9110 series [c,d,2]
  * 9300 series [c,d,3]
  * 9420 series [c,d,3]
  * 9810 series [c,d,2]

====Extensa====
  * 4010 series [c,d,2]
  * 5010 series [c,d,2]
  * 5220 series [c,d,3]

====Ferrari====
  * 1000 series [c,d,2]
  * 1100 series [c,d,3]
  * 5000 series [c,d,2]

==== Travelmate ====
  * 2410 series [c,dw,1]
  * 2420 series [c,d,3]
  * 2480 series [c,d,2]
  * 2490 series [c,d,2,k]
  * 3010 series [c,d,2]
  * 3040 series [c,d,2]
  * 3260 series [c,d,2]
  * 3620 series [c,d,2]
  * 4200 series [c,d,2]
  * 4220 series [c,d,2]
  * 4280 series [c,d,2]
  * 4400 series [c,d,1]
  * 5520 series [c,d,3]
  * 5620 series [c,d,3]
  * 5720 series [c,d,3]
  * 6290 series [c,d,3]
  * 6292 series [c,d,3] - Confirmed via DMI
  * 6590 series [c,d,2]
  * 7520 series [c,d,3]
  * 8210 series [c,d,1]

===Fujitsu Siemens===
====Amilo====
  * A1650 [c,d,1]

===Medion===
====MD====
  * 98300 [c,d,1]

== Unsupported ==

This list is _very_ incomplete. The models listed here are the ones known to absolutely _not_ work with this driver - if you have one of these: it is not, cannot and will not be supported by acer_acpi. (Some of these might be useable with acerhk, or the wireless/ bluetooth switches may be hardware driven instead and not require any software).

===Acer===
====Aspire====
  * 1310 series [c,d,n]
  * 1350 series [c,d,n]
  * 1410 series [c,d,n]
  * 1500 series [c,dw,n]
  * 1510 series [c,dw,n]
  * 1520 series [c,d,n]
  * 1640 series [c,d,n]
  * 1650 series [c,dw,n]
  * 1670 series [c,dw,n]
  * 1680 series [c,dw,n]
  * 1690 series [c,d,n]
  * 1700 series [c,d,n]
  * 2010 series [c,dw,n]
  * 3000 series [c,d,n]
  * 3030 series [u,dw,n]
  * 3500 series [c,d,n]
  * 5000 series [c,d,n]
  * 5030 series [c,d,n]
  * 5500 series [c,d,n]
  * 5510 series [c,dw,n]

====Extensa====
  * 4100 series [c,d,n]

====Ferrari====
  * 4000 series [c,d,n]

==== Travelmate ====
  * C200 series [c,dw,n - has AMW0 device, but no WMAB method]
  * C310 series [c,d,n]
  * 220 series [c,d,n]
  * 290 series [c,dw,n]
  * 350 series [c,dw,n]
  * 380 series [c,d,n]
  * 420 series [c,dw,n]
  * 430 series [c,dw,n,k]
  * 520 series [c,d,n]
  * 610 series [c,d,n]
  * 650 series [c,d,n]
  * 800 series [c,d,n]
  * 2200 series [c,dw,n]
  * 2300 series [c,d,n]
  * 2700 series [c,dw,n]
  * 3000 series [c,dw,n]
  * 3200 series [c,d,n]
  * 4000 series [c,d,n]
  * 4020 series [c,dw,n]
  * 4050 series [c,d,n]
  * 4100 series [c,d,n]
  * 4150 series [c,d,n]
  * 4500 series [c,dw,n]
  * 4600 series [c,dw,n]
  * 4650 series [c,d,n]
  * 8100 series [c,d,n]

===Compal===
  * CL56 [c,d,n]

===Prestigio===

====Nobile====
  * 157 [c,d,n]

== Unknown ==

I have no information on these laptops either way - reports from the field (with DSDTs) would be much appreciated. (This list is also _very_ incomplete).

===Acer===
  * 2420 series [u,dw]
  * 3690 series [u,dw]
  * 4310 series [u,dw]
  * 4320 series [u,dw]
  * 4920 series [u,dw]
  * 5110 series [u,dw]
  * 5310 series [u,dw]
  * 5320 series [u,dw]
  * 5590 series [u,dw]
  * 5630 series [u,dw]
  * 5910 series [u,dw]
  * 5920 series [u,dw]
  * 7000 series [u,dw]
  * 7220 series [u,dw]
  * 7520 series [u,dw]
  * 9120 series [u,dw]
  * 9410 series [u,dw]
  * 9510 series [u,dw]
  * 9520 series [u,dw]
  * 9800 series [u,dw]
  * 9810 series [u,dw]
  * 9920 series [u,dw]

====TravelMate====
  * C210 series [u,dw]
  * 3020 series [u,dw]
  * 3040 series [u,dw]
  * 3270 series [u,dw]
  * 3290 series [u,dw]
  * 4230 series [u,dw]
  * 4260 series [u,dw]
  * 4270 series [u,dw]
  * 4320 series [u,dw]
  * 4520 series [u,dw]
  * 4720 series [u,dw]
  * 5220 series [u,dw]
  * 5310 series [u,dw]
  * 5320 series [u,dw]
  * 5610 series [u,dw] - Maybe supported, same manual as 5620
  * 6291 series [u,dw] - Strange name, taken from Acer's website
  * 6410 series [u,dw]
  * 6460 series [u,dw]
  * 6492 series [u,dw]
  * 7220 series [u,dw]
  * 7720 series [u,dw]
